 (CNN)Actor Dustin Diamond, best known for playing the role of Screech on the 1990s high school comedy "Saved by the Bell," has been arrested in Ozaukee, Wisconsin on a probation hold, according to the Ozaukee County Jail.
Diamond was sentenced to four months in jail for stabbing a man during a Christmas Day 2014 altercation at a bar in Wisconsin. He served three months of the sentence.
A probation hold occurs when the offender's probation agent believes he or she has not complied with the terms of their probation. People on probation hold are generally held in county facilities while the agent completes a violation investigation. 
If the incident that led to the violation investigation is serious enough, the offender -- in this case Diamond -- could have their parole revoked. 
No new charges have been filed against Diamond, and no other information is available at this time, according to the jail.
'Saved by the Bell' movie: What we learned
Knife drawn in bar
Diamond was arrested following an altercation as he and fiancée Amanda Schutz were out celebrating. A group of people started asking for photos when someone "sucker-punched" Schutz, he told his former co-star, Mario Lopez, in an interview for "Extra."
"She leaned back to me and her face was covered in blood."
After one of the men in the group grabbed Schutz's hair, Diamond told the host, "I opened my pocket knife and said, 'Let my wife go immediately,' which worked."
Diamond denied that he actually stabbed anyone, saying that the victim "nicked his arm on the tip of" Diamond's pocket knife.
The actor served three months of his sentence and said of his experience in jail, "It's pretty daunting, it's pretty scary going into that environment."
During the interview, Diamond said he wants to focus on getting his acting career back on track and starting a family with Schutz.
"I want to put the tomfoolery and malarkey behind me... for that clean slate," he told Lopez. "Time for a change."
'Saved by the Bell's' Mark-Paul Gosselaar calls co-star 'negative'
