 (CNN)Stacey Dash is weighing in on everything from gun control to feminism and why she thinks transgender people should go to the bathroom in the bushes. 
The actress is releasing a new memoir, "There Goes My Social Life: From Clueless to Conservative," and it is already proving to be as controversial as the Fox pundit herself.
Stacey Dash's evolution from 'Clueless' star to conservative pundit
In her book Dash discusses transgender reality star Caitlyn Jenner's use of the women's restroom. Jenner, who is also a conservative, famously transitioned last year from her former public identity as male athlete and reality star Bruce Jenner.
During an interview with "Entertainment Tonight" Dash asserted that being transgender is a lifestyle choice.
"It's your body! So, it's your decision, right?" she said. "We all make choices."
When rebutted with the argument that transgender people don't choose what they feel is their true gender identity, Dash said "OK, then go in the bushes. I don't know what to tell you, but I'm not gonna put my child's life at risk because you want to change a law. So that you can be comfortable with your beliefs -- which means I have to change my beliefs and my rights? No." 
The former "Clueless" star is no stranger to controversy.
In January she was slammed for saying she believed both Black History Month and the BET network should be abolished.
Stacey Dash responds to backlash with 'How BET Lies To Black People'
In her book Dash also recounts what she says was her rape at the hands of an abusive man. The actress told People she shot at her attacker and the experience strengthened her views on gun control 
"A gun saved my life," she said. "That's why my Second Amendment right will not be taken away from me."
Dash also told ET that she is planning to launch "Dash America," a brand she said will help reshape the way people view feminism.
"What we're doing is we're chipping away at what it is to be a woman and to be feminine," she said. "And what it is to be a man and be masculine. We're chipping away at that. I wish we could go back to 'Mad Men' days. I love those days. Men were men."
Dash's book is scheduled for release June 6. 
