New York (CNN)Rapper Troy Ave has been arrested after a deadly music hall shooting in New York on Wednesday night -- not long after he performed on stage, the New York Police Department said. Rapper T.I. had been scheduled to appear later in the show.
Troy Ave, who is Roland Collins, 33, was in police custody at a New York hospital after being arrested on suspicion of attempted murder and two counts of criminal possession of a weapon, Detective Annette Shelton said Thursday.
Collins, who was an opening act at the concert, is in stable condition with a gunshot wound to the leg, police said. He walked to New York University hospital, authorities said. 
When reached by CNN early Thursday, Collins' father, also named Roland Collins, said his son was doing fine. CNN reached out to the Collins' family again for comment after his arrest and the man who answered the phone said, "No comment."
How Collins came to be shot is under investigation by the NYPD, Shelton said.
One man was killed in the shooting and two others were injured, Detective Hubert Reyes said. The victims' names have not been released.
No one else has been charged in the case.
Fistfight then a gunshot
The incident began as an argument that turned into a fistfight outside a room reserved for rappers at the concert, NYPD Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce said.
About five minutes after the fighting began, someone pulled a gun.
Police said Collins is the man seen on surveillance video entering a VIP area of the concert venue, Irving Plaza, Wednesday evening and firing his weapon once.
The video, released by the NYPD, shows several people cowering under a bar and couples embracing before a man enters the room.
A door swings open and a man carrying a gun enters the room, followed by two other men.
In the short video, the gunman raises his hand several times and fires a shot to the opposite side of the room as debris clouds the screen and people scurry around the room, knocking over chairs.
Other charges may be pending against Collins, Shelton said.
T.I., who didn't perform because of the shooting, wrote on Twitter on Thursday afternoon: "Rest In Peace Bro. God bless."
He posted the message with an image that included a longer, sentimental note.
"My heart is heavy today. Our music is intended to save lives, like it has mine and many others. My heartfelt condolences to the family that suffered the loss & my prayers are with all those injured," the image read. He did not give the victim's name.
Irving Plaza posted a statement on its Facebook page saying, "The safety of our guests is of the utmost importance."
CNN's Shimon Prokupecz, Joshua Berlinger and Emily Smith contributed to this report